# Multiply Robust Imputation for Missing Categorical Data: The Impact of Weighting Methods

This repository contains the code for my master thesis "Multiply Robust Imputation for Missing Categorical Data: The Impact of Weighting Methods". Please, see below detailed information about each file.

1. pre-analysis.Rmd
   
The includes the code to study the influence of the generated explanatory variables and the response indicator on the outcome variable. Before running the code, the population needs to be generated by using the file "simulation_code_main.Rmd"

2. simulation_code_main.Rmd
   
The file includes the code for generating the population and the functions to generate the data for all the conditions using the MI methods. In order for the simulation functions to work, supportive functions from the R scripts "simulation_fun.R", "MI_methods.R", "pseudoR2.R" and "Other_fun.R" are needed.

3. simulation_fun.R
   
The script includes the main functions for the simulation (called in the file "simulation_code_main.Rmd") that are run in parallel when simulating the data by using the MI methods. In addition, the script includes functions to compute the pooled parameters for each MI method.

4. MI_methods.R
   
The file includes the main code for all the robust MI methods.

5. pseudoR2.R
   
The script incldues the supportive functions to compute four types of pseudo R2s that are needed for the method MRIC R2.

6. Other_fun.R
    
The file includes the following supportive functions that are needed for the simulation: a function to calculate Akaike weights (needed for method MRIC AIC) a function to calculate the Hosmer Lemeshow chi-square test statistic (needed for MRIC HL), a function to calculate the Euclidean distance between two units and a function to compute the pooled parameters (for any method if we have the imputed dataset(s)).

7. Results.Rmd
    
The file includes the code for the statistical analyses: calculatino of AEP, ASE, SD and CR.

8. Figure.Rmd
The file contains the code to generate the figures that were used in the thesis.


